My name's David Lopatta,
and I'm here with Josh Durham.
I work at Apple in the,
I'm an area consulting
engineer based out of Atlanta,
and I focus on high performance computing
and server and infrastructure stuff.
And then Josh Durham is from
Virginia Tech and is the root user
of the Terrascale cluster there.
So he manages the
Virginia Tech Terrascale cluster.
And today we're going to talk about,
the title I should say is
a little bit incorrect.
There's a couple of typos, so to speak.
The word administration really should
be installation and deployment,
and large installation
should probably be gone.
So we're really going to focus
on high performance computing.
A lot of what we talk about will apply
to large installations in general,
particularly the first half where
I focus on the physical layouts,
but we really are focusing on the
high performance computing clusters.
So in terms of an agenda,
we're going to first sort
of go over a computing 101,
cluster computing 101,
and then talk about the things you
might do to architect an appropriate
cluster for your specific problem.
We'll go over some of the physical
deployment considerations,
and then I will switch over the
balance of the time to Josh,
who will talk about building a basic
cluster framework and getting the
LINPACK and why that's important.
We'll also talk about testing the
various cluster components to make sure
that... the system is up and stable and
performing the way you would like it.
We'll go into job scheduling
actually at that point,
and then jump back to tweaking OS X for
performance and trying to eke the
most performance out of the system.
Again, I'll be covering the first
half specifically sort of
the physical considerations.
When we go through these things,
hopefully none of these things
are earth shattering and things
you didn't really consider.
I'm really hoping this is more
like enhanced common sense.
Whereas you look at the other side,
you're going to see that the system
is up and stable and performing
the way you would like it.
You look at these things, you say,
"Oh yeah,
I may not have thought about that,
but I know I should have." And then
we'll provide that sort of as
a basis for creating a cluster.
So to step back a little bit and go
over what cluster computing really
means to us in this specific session,
we want to talk about, first off,
what we're not going to cover,
and that's the available or scalable
clusters that you might use in
an IT infrastructure environment.
These will not be covered because
the specific things that we're
bringing to the table here in terms
of techniques don't generally apply.
And also, even in a large-scale,
high-availability or scalable cluster,
the number of nodes we're talking
about aren't as large as you
might see in an HPC environment.
So again, high availability.
We're not going to discuss this,
but just so you know what this is.
This is basically where you
have two systems providing a
redundant front end for a service,
whether it's an Oracle database or
some other service that is business
critical to your environment.
And the idea here is that we
eliminate single points of failure
by introducing redundant systems
and networks with redundant paths
and heartbeats to the environment.
So pretty straightforward system.
Tiger, as an OS,
has a lot of features built into it
to allow for this kind of environment.
So there are really exciting
things you can do with an HA kind
of environment with Tiger.
But again, this is not specifically
something we'll discuss today.
And then the idea of scalable clusters.
Again, things like Oracle Rack and also
web services that might have load
balancers in the front where,
essentially,
most of your data is static and can
be handled by a bunch of stateless
devices or tied to a shared storage
environment in the back end.
So some of the things that
we're going to talk about today,
the features or the procedures we'll
be talking about today for deploying
HPC clusters does apply here.
But again, it's sort of a one-off.
At the end, we will have Q&A.
So while these are sort of off
limits from the slides perspective,
if you have specific
questions about this,
we'll be happy to entertain them.
And we will answer every question,
provided you accept I don't
know as a possible answer.
And then we'll just move from there.
So computational clusters.
Basically, we break this down into two
types of computational clusters.
The first is a traditional high
performance computing cluster.
In this environment, really,
the computer is the solution.
So folks that are involved in this
space are developing their own code.
They're selecting an architecture
that is interesting or
appropriate for that type of code.
And then they're modeling and building
and designing their software around that.
So they pick it based on a
hardware architecture or a
performance characteristic
of a hardware architecture,
and then build up from there.
The second kind is the
solutions-based architecture.
And we have a great story here
with the Apple Workgroup Cluster.
And here, the software really defines
what we're trying to deliver.
And it's really about time to
results and making sure that the
software is robust and flexible
on the platform that you're using.
So the software drives the solution.
And from there,
you build out the appropriate
cluster infrastructure that provides
the best experience for the user.
So if we look again at sort of
the generalized needs of the
high performance environment,
essentially good double precision
floating point is critical.
Traditionally here we also see
the high speed interconnect,
so Miranet or InfiniBand become
very interesting in this space.
And of course we need strong compilers,
because again the researchers
here are actually developing
and designing their own code.
So a strong compiler environment to
be able to bring good performance
to the algorithms that are
being used here is essential.
And this is what a typical layout might
look like for an HPC kind of environment.
In the solutions-based environment,
essentially the cluster is a
black box for submitting jobs.
We have a good story here again with
the workroom cluster for bioinformatics.
The idea here is that this is
designed to be a product and
not necessarily a project.
The back-end infrastructure
of the cluster becomes less
important to the researcher,
and it's really about time to results,
being able to plug
something into the wall,
get your research done
as quickly as possible,
and get the research done and submitted.
And however we get that accomplished
on the back-end is really not of
interest to the specific researcher.
[Transcript missing]
So, those are the types of
architectures that you might have.
Then the key here is figuring out exactly
how you go about designing and building
the cluster that's appropriate for you.
So the key thing is to figure out
exactly what your goal is here.
It may be a specific application,
for example.
You may be building it
for a solution like Blast,
or you may be trying to target a
specific performance benchmark.
In this case,
we're going to discuss the HP LINPACK.
Once you've got that,
you need to figure out exactly
what kind of performance
you're attempting to achieve.
So, it might be that you're
trying to hit 2.0 teraflops,
again, using the LINPACK experience.
Once that's done, you really need to pay
attention to exactly what you're
going to do after the fact.
There's a lot of times where the
cluster is and always is going
to be a cluster environment,
but there's also times where you may
need to do redeployment over time.
So, it may be that a research project,
at the end of its life cycle,
the systems may be... need to
be redeployed for other uses,
whether that's infrastructure services or
maybe redeployed into a lab environment,
etc.
So, trying to figure out what you're
going to do tomorrow helps you decide
what architecture that you're going
to use to build the cluster today.
Once that's done,
that really gives you the
opportunity to select what specific
platform that you would want.
So, for example,
an XSERV G5 is an excellent system if
you're going to have a dedicated cluster.
If it's something that you're doing
a short-term research project that
you're going to turn over later on,
you might also consider PowerMaker.
PowerMaker is a system that's going to be
deployed into a lab environment later on
if you want to be able to repurpose them.
From there,
we have to figure out what storage needs
are going to be used by the system.
This generally happens by discussing
with your researchers exactly the kind
of storage needs they're going to have,
whether it can be dedicated
storage on a single shared system,
whether or not they need
high-speed access using something
like XSAN to communicate
to a bunch of high-speed nodes,
or whether they need a more
distributed environment with
lots of local scratch space,
for example.
Thank you.
The next thing is to figure out, well,
what are we going to actually use to
tie this thing together as an image?
So we may be using MPI.
There's been a lot of discussions
about OpenMPI here at the show,
and there's a variety of MPIs that
are available for Mac OS X.
We may be creating a PVM environment,
or we may be using something like
XGrid's BEEP protocol to exchange
information across the network.
Once we've figured that out,
the next key thing is to figure out,
well, what the interconnect is.
And this ends up being
extremely important,
because the interconnect can
be a very large percentage of
the actual cost of the system.
So we want to take care to make
sure that we select this wisely.
When we look at the interconnect itself,
there are a few deciding factors.
Basically, it's the old price performance
decision that we have to figure out.
Gigabit Ethernet is by
far the cheapest solution.
The XServe G5 ships with two
gigabit ports on the motherboard,
so it's a very convenient
way to create two networks,
one dedicated for the
communications network,
and then a second network
for back-end services.
So you don't need any
additional HBAs for that,
and it's just there out of the box.
In terms of performance,
when you're looking at needing
a low-latency interconnect,
both MirrorNet and InfiniBand provide
very low latencies versus Ethernet.
So those are the two candidates on
OS X that you would generally be looking
for for a low-latency interconnect.
In terms of throughput,
MirrorNet advertises about 900 megabytes
per second with dual-ported HBAs,
where InfiniBand can scale up
to 10 gigabits per second per
port on a dual-ported HBA.
And I mentioned there, of course,
that exceeds the PCI-X specification
that we ship on the XServe,
but it does create a nice
future-proof interface.
In terms of what's available on OS X,
both are available and
very robust on OS X,
and we have a growing number
of deployments in each.
Currently,
MirrorNet tends to be the leader in
terms of the numbers of systems that
we've currently shipped and are deployed,
and is probably the most popular
high-speed interconnect on that
top 500 list as it exists today.
So again,
what we're going into now is the
physical deployment considerations,
and hopefully this ends up being
essentially enhanced common sense.
Hopefully there's nothing
really earth-shattering here,
but we want to cover
these kinds of things,
because when we go through with customers
and walk through the deployment cycle,
this is where the biggest
pains come from our customers.
The physical considerations that tend to
either get ignored or overlooked during
the purchasing cycle cause the biggest
headaches for our customers long-term.
So in terms of racks,
the XSERV can support either
a two or four post rack.
We strongly recommend
a four post cabinet,
of course.
The XSERV RAID is only
available-- you can only configure
that into a four post rack.
You'll notice that the
sizes for the various racks,
the depths,
actually do not exactly overlap
for your XSERV RAID and your XSERV.
So you want to make sure that if
you're building out an infrastructure,
you're getting the appropriately
sized racks for your
XSERV RAID as well as your XSERV.
In terms of mount order,
if you're using a fairly small cluster,
so you've got maybe one or two racks,
you want to make sure your UPSs
are physically on the bottom
of the rack just because of the
physical weight considerations,
and then you'd put the
XRV raids on top of that.
That alone will save you a lot
of pain and suffering in terms of
back injuries and things like that.
Then, basically, on the top of the rack,
you'll basically start adding your
cluster nodes and your head node
from the top down to the middle.
All your infrastructure hardware,
your gigabit Ethernet,
etc., would go essentially
in the center of the rack.
For larger deployments,
we would recommend considering
a center rack that has basically
your infrastructure services,
your gigabit ports,
your gigabit switches,
and your marionette switches,
and things like that,
and then fan out the cluster nodes
on the sides of that because as
you're building this infrastructure,
particularly with a
high-speed interconnect like
marionette or InfiniBand,
the cost of the cables are directly
related to the length of the cable.
So having a central point where these
feed into reduces the cost by lowering
the physical length of the cables.
In terms of tools and parts,
you want a lot of batteries
for your screwdrivers.
You're putting in a lot of systems.
Generally,
you do need two people installing this,
one on the back of the system,
one on the front.
You'll find you can do an XRV raid
in just a couple minutes if
you've got two people doing
it and you get into a good rhythm.
It's a pretty straightforward process.
But it's fairly something
you've just got to get used to.
It becomes more of an art than
a science in many respects.
One thing that we run into a lot
is in terms of which screws to use.
I know this sounds really simplistic,
but you've got a bunch
of bags of screws around.
Some of them are metric.
Some of them are English measure.
Make sure you're using the right screws.
So if you're attaching anything
physically to the XRV or the XRV raid,
use the screws that we provide.
If you're attaching anything
to the actual racks,
make sure you're using
the rack manufacturers.
And that will save you
a lot of headaches.
And again,
it's sort of enhanced common sense,
but we have a lot of folks who sort
of overlook that and have a lot
of headaches associated with that.
In terms of power and environmentals,
this is again probably the number one
issue we have in deploying a cluster.
Folks will buy a large,
reasonably sized cluster and then
attempt to deploy it in a closet with
no heating or cooling consideration.
These are the basic numbers.
The K bases at the top are kept up to
date as we provide various releases,
the XSERV and the XSERV RAID.
And I won't go over the numbers directly,
but you can see sort
of how they progress.
And the XSERV RAID obviously pulls a lot
of power and generates a lot of BTUs.
If you look at that in some
typical cluster configurations,
these are estimates.
If you're planning on deploying
a 32 or 64 node cluster,
please do not use these as gospel.
Make sure you measure it yourself.
But this is the kind of power pull
and BTUs that we're looking at.
The 1110 node cluster here is, of course,
the Virginia Tech TerraScale cluster.
So 310 kilowatts and just under
2 million BTUs in terms of heat.
So again, you want to keep this in mind
because as you add nodes,
this gets to be a pretty
significant number.
And with that, I'm very, very early.
I'm going to be turning this over
to Josh from Virginia Tech to
cover the software aspects.
Great.
Thanks, Dave.
So I'm going to go over some of the
software side of things on what's
involved in setting up a cluster.
And we're going to go
over some different terms.
There's different kind of roles that
we have of systems in a cluster.
And we're going to start out with
the service and head node setup.
So a service node in a cluster is
basically providing infrastructure.
It provides different services like DHCP,
DNS, LDAP, the common storage.
Basically all the things that
the compute nodes are going
to need to be able to run,
the service nodes are going to provide.
This can be one system,
or if you have a larger cluster,
maybe larger than 32,
you might want to think about
putting this onto multiple systems.
So the Service Node Setup,
the first thing we have to do
obviously is install the OS.
I recommend installing basically
the full OS with everything added.
That way if later you find
out you need something,
it's already there,
so nothing's going to be missing.
So install the base OS,
install all the developer tools,
and basically just put everything
on that you get in the box.
There's different ways of doing this.
One of the problems in clusters is
that often the systems won't have a
video display or a keyboard or mouse.
So if you are lucky enough to have that,
you can do your standard install.
You boot from the CD, stick it in,
just go through the standard
install like normal.
If you can't do that,
you have a couple of other options.
What you can do is you can stick the
XServe in a target FireWire mode,
get a laptop,
and basically use your laptop
to install onto that hard drive.
And that works out pretty well.
A third thing you can do is do remotely
with the CD and server assistant.
So what server assistant will let
you do is basically over the network,
act like you're doing a GUI install,
but you're actually installing
a system across the network.
And finally you do a network install,
which is basically set up a system,
have all the services on it,
and then you deploy that
image across the network.
And we'll go into that in a little bit.
So we're going to go over some of
the services that I think are very
important for installing a cluster
and for these infrastructure servers.
The first one is DHCP.
So DHCP, most of you know,
is a way of dynamically allocating
IP addresses to systems.
And we're going to use this to allocate
addresses to the cluster nodes.
Well,
we don't want it to be quite dynamic,
because the problem we're going to
have is that if you don't know which
cluster node has which IP address,
and you have a problem
with that cluster node,
it's going to be a lot harder
to find and diagnose an issue.
So if you have a system that
might be acting unusual or weird,
you want to make sure that the
third system down has the third
IP address that you've assigned.
Otherwise, it could be the fifth,
and you'll spend some time just
trying to figure out which system
really is causing the problem.
So obviously,
this is set up through server admin,
which is part of the OS X server tools.
The second service
that we provide is DNS.
And DNS is -- DNS and DHCP I kind
of put in the same basket,
because DHCP will give
out the IP addresses,
and then DNS lets the
infrastructure nodes,
the service nodes,
and the head nodes basically find
each other and work together.
So through our experiences,
we found with the original System 10,
when we did the PowerMax,
we had this node name number
of N0001 through N1100.
And it turned out to be
a scripting nightmare,
because we'd have to
pad out the node name,
and regular expressions
just wouldn't work.
So when we did the second
System 10 with the XSERVs,
we switched this naming scheme of
basically node and then just the number.
So don't try to pad it
with the zeros there.
And we always get into this debate,
the computer scientists at
Virginia Tech want to start
with the node number being zero.
And the system administrators
wanted to start out with one.
And so I finally won out on that one,
because I was the guy who got to do it.
Again, this is set up using Server Admin.
Pretty straightforward.
The only thing that you need to make
sure of is that the IP addresses
and the names here correspond
to what you also did in DHCP.
So shared storage,
this has kind of been an issue
of debate on the cluster stuff,
with how much it can scale in
OS X and which one you should use.
So at Virginia Tech, we use NFS,
and we actually do
have all 1,100 systems.
Actually, each NFS server has all
1,100 systems attached to it.
So definitely no problem scaling there.
And I think we've been
doing that since 10.3.6,
so we haven't even looked at
how to do that with Tiger yet.
But with NFS,
it's going to basically provide this
common store across the entire cluster.
And what that will let us do is that,
instead of like before,
if you saw the XGrid demonstration,
when you submit something to XGrid,
XGrid handles taking those jobs,
submitting it to all the nodes,
and moving the files to those nodes,
the nodes work with them,
things get moved back,
and then downloaded to the agent.
Well, we don't need to do that,
because we're going to do a shared NFS.
So instead of having to transfer
these files back and forth,
the files are already directly
accessible from each node.
So before I said that on larger systems
you want to kind of break out the
roles that each service node does,
an NFS is probably the first one you'll
want to break out because it's probably
the most demanding of all the roles.
Again, this is sort of using the
OS X server tool work group manager.
Basically just set up an NFS export
and then the clients can pick that up.
Finally, the last service I'm going to
talk about is Open Directory.
Open Directory allows basically a common
user view across the entire cluster.
And this is important because
you want each compute node
to-- so when you submit a job,
and you want all the compute nodes
to have the same user ID and have
the same access control stuff that
is common with the local interface.
So.
We use Open Directory.
What I love about Open Directory,
and we do use this at Virginia Tech,
is it really does take about 10 or
15 seconds to create a new user.
So it's very easy, very quick.
You do it in one place,
and then you get the users, basically,
users can access all the
systems once you've done that.
This is done using Workgroup Manager.
You do set up using Server Admin,
and then you do the user
maintenance in Workgroup Manager.
Another thing that you can do
is do the system monitoring,
also from a service node.
So I think a lot of people have probably
seen the XServe system monitoring.
One thing I have to note is that you
really need to have an XServe or an
XServe ray to do system monitoring.
The hardware is just designed to
provide a lot more information.
It provides all the thermal information,
all the CPU power usage, for example.
I can't even remember how many
different metrics there are.
I think it was over 22.
Obviously, you can't get that if you're
trying to install a cluster
on a Mac mini or something.
I don't think it provides
all that information.
So what's great about the server monitor
is that you can set it up to email out
if there's something on certain events.
So you can say, if a CPU temperature gets
out of a certain boundary,
go in and email someone.
So you can have a system
administrator or have someone get
paged or an SMS type thing happen.
And that's really helped us
integrate into our call center.
We have a 24-hour call center at
Virginia Tech separate from the system.
And that's really helped us be able to
basically monitor the system after hours.
So that was the service nodes.
What we're going to talk
about next is the head node.
Head node's a little bit different
because it's basically what the
users have access to directly.
It's probably the only systems they
should be having access to directly.
The service nodes are kind of more of
the system administration type stuff,
and you don't usually have
users logging into that.
But the head nodes basically
provide this bridge,
or this portal,
that allows people from the external
network to get in and use the
resources of the internal network.
So it really should be the only
system that is on both networks.
Most of the times in the
common cluster setup,
people will be using SSH to log in.
They can use SCP to move files
back and forth from the cluster.
So on the head node,
users will often compile their
programs and they will run their
codes directly from the head node.
So the head node's in charge of
getting the jobs out so people
can run on the entire cluster.
And again, on small clusters,
maybe smaller than 32,
it might not make sense to break
this out into a separate system,
just because it's kind of a waste
of a system on a small cluster to
have head nodes and service nodes,
and then all your computational nodes.
With the compute nodes,
I'm going to talk a little bit about
how to deploy that to your cluster,
how to deploy a common
image across your cluster.
Basically, a compute node is the
workhorse of your cluster,
so you shouldn't be doing anything
but running user codes on this.
It shouldn't be doing any
other services or tasks,
so all the services that you
don't need should be turned off.
So basically,
we start with a basic image.
And we may install the developer
tools on that basic image.
And we configure it with
DHCP on the first interface,
because when you want the
cluster nodes to come up,
you obviously want them to use the
infrastructure that we just talked about.
And again,
I should mention that the easiest way
to probably do this is to kind of set up
one system exactly the way you want it.
So again, with basic image and DHCP.
And then we're going
to install an SSH key,
which is going to allow us
to do passwordless login.
And that's going to be really important,
because when you want to run
something across the entire cluster,
you don't want to be
prompted for a password 16,
15, or 1100 times.
That would take a lot of time.
And then you want to make sure that
the cluster nodes are going to be using
all the services we had just set up.
And finally, something I like to do,
because I don't like to mess
with the compute nodes too
much after I've set them up,
I don't like to log in and
change scripts and modify things,
is we create a compute node
startup script that's kind of
going to refer to a centralized
directory and a centralized script.
And I have an example of one
coming up here in a slide or two.
So how do we get that
image onto the cluster?
Sorry, skipped ahead.
Basically, we need to, on the image,
this is kind of what we
were talking about before,
we need to install the Server OS,
developer tools.
Don't enable any services
except for maybe ARD.
If you're uncomfortable with
doing SSH to manage your systems,
ARD is a very good way to do it.
And I think there's an
ARD session tomorrow if you want
more information about that.
You want to make sure the image
has all the updates that are
relevant for your situation.
And you want to make sure that the image
has any software that needs to be local.
So any libraries such as
As MPI, or maybe your drivers like
Marinette GM or InfiniBand,
they all need to be local.
Also, I know in the past,
like if you installed IBM's XLF,
you had to install certain
libraries on each system as well.
I think it was their runtime
library or something like that.
So basically, you set up the image
exactly the way you want it.
This is the startup script
that I was referring to before.
We basically want to
achieve two things here.
We want to mount the NFS server,
and then we want to run the
centralized script that I talked about.
So the centralized script is sitting on
the NFS server under ETSI nodes.start.
And so the reason we do that is,
let's say we want to install or start up
InfiniBand or across the entire cluster.
Well,
instead of going in and logging into each
system and modifying the local start,
that's important later because
let's say you wanted to try
a new InfiniBand driver out,
but you didn't want to
toss the old one out.
All you've got to do is put this
again in a central location,
update this one script,
and reboot your entire cluster.
Alright,
so now we're going to talk about imaging.
There's a few different ways to do it.
So we have the golden image,
and the golden image is set
up exactly how we want it,
and it looks exactly how a
cluster node is going to be.
We want to first make a
disk image out of that,
and I use ASR.
You can also use the disk utility
that comes with every Apple system
to basically make a disk image.
Easiest way to do that is
basically to stick the golden
client into the target FireWire,
and from another system
like a laptop or a desktop,
you can then just create
a disk image from that.
An application we like to use,
and we use a lot with the
first cluster especially,
is NetRestore, which Mike Baumbach wrote.
And what's great about
NetRestore is it lets you drop a
cluster image over the network,
and it actually has full automation
support so that you can just say,
do a net boot and walk away,
and it should drop the image on
the server and reboot the server.
So then the only real step there is
that you have to make sure that the
server boots up and does a net boot,
which is you can modify the lights on
the front when you're first doing it.
I'm not sure if you've done that,
but the XSurf has a way of basically,
right as you turn it on, you can say,
I don't want to boot
from the local drive,
it's going to boot over the network.
It's similar to like holding down
the N key on a PowerBook or a
PowerMac or something like that.
So you can do that completely
on the front without having to
have a keyboard or a video thing.
And that works out really well.
And that's how we did
a lot of deployments.
Finally,
you can do the sneak-it-up method.
So what I love about the XSERV is
it's got the nice pop-out hard drives.
So you can just pop out this hard drive
and walk over to an imaging system,
stick the hard drive in,
and just image that drive.
Another great thing about the XSERV is
that the drives are hot-swappable,
so you don't have to power
down the imaging XSERV,
stick the drive in, power it up, image,
and then recycle again.
You can just go in, pop it in,
it automatically mounts,
and then you can ASR it.
Alright, so after imaging,
we have the golden image
on all the cluster nodes.
We have all of our
infrastructure services set up,
so it should have the common storage,
common authentication set up.
Should have the portal node or head
node set up and the service nodes.
Cluster nodes should
have their DNS set up,
and everything should be
resolving with DNS just fine.
We do the common file script,
which makes doing driver deployment
and upgrades much easier.
And then we also have
that passwordless key,
which I'll go into why you want
to do that in just a minute.
So there's a couple ways of
making changes or modifying
how your compute nodes work.
The first one is to edit
that central script,
and you can kind of drop some
things that might make a change
or a fix on the next reboot.
Like, for example,
what I was saying before,
where you might want to load a
different driver on a reboot.
Another command that
we use a lot is PDSH,
and that stands for
Parallel Distributed Shell.
And what that lets you do is it
lets you run a command in parallel
across your entire cluster.
So in the example above, we have
We're running command on nodes 1 through
999 with a timeout of 30 seconds,
and we're just telling it to reboot.
But you could do anything.
You could have it copy files.
You can change system settings.
Anything that you can
do by the command line,
you can do with this command.
And finally,
we should be able to run basic MPI jobs,
since now all the
systems have MPI on them,
and all the service is required for that.
So one of the problems that,
so you have your cluster up,
is you really need to make sure that
everything's working as expected.
Averaging and tech,
we had been rushing so much to get...
We had to get to do the benchmarks.
We were on such a time frame that
for the first three nights we
had just turned everything on and
then we kept trying to run these
benchmarks across all the systems.
And it would continuously
fail because one system will
basically mess up your whole run.
So everything has to be stable and
reliable for you to be able to do that.
So the first thing we need to do
is we want to test each system out.
And what we did is we used LINPACK,
or the HPL benchmark,
to kind of stress test each system.
I kind of chose LINPACK because
it pegs the CPU,
it can use a whole lot of RAM,
and you can have it run for a
really long time unattended.
So those met kind of some of the
requirements that we needed to kind
of stress test the systems locally.
So we run a two CPU job,
or two CPU tests per each XServe,
so P being one XServe
and Q being two CPUs.
And we pick a matrix size,
about 80% physical RAM.
If you don't know what HPL is
or LIMPAC benchmark is,
it's basically a linear
algebra problem solver.
And so we want to be able to create a
matrix size that uses most of the CPU.
And we want to do that because we want
to stress all of the RAM as we can,
so we can see if there are
any errors with the RAM.
And we want to run multiple tests.
The reason we want to do that is
because we want to make sure things
get nice and warm inside the XServe,
because some of the problems don't
develop until they've been running at
kind of a warmer temperature for a while.
So for example,
I think on a 4 gig XServe,
the most you can have a single
run be is about 8 minutes,
so adding multiple sets,
like in this case 4,
you can test it out for much longer.
The way you really find out if a compute
node is acting strangely is just to kind
of compare it to the rest of the systems.
So let's say you're
testing across 32 systems,
and 31 of them may be
finished in 400 seconds,
but that last one may be finished
in just 600 or 700 seconds.
You have a pretty good idea that there's
something not quite right with that one.
And there's a few things to try.
Obviously,
one of the things you might want to
do is just try to reboot and see if
that kind of clears up the error.
Sometimes a service might
get stuck in a weird state,
or may not come up all the way.
If the rebooting doesn't fix it,
then you might want to
look at hardware issues.
One of the more common ones that we see
is memory errors or memory failures.
When the XR boots and it detects
a bad DIMM or something like that,
it will actually disable that DIMM.
So the nice thing about having a test
that uses almost all of what we think is
all the RAM is that we can really stress
and make sure all the RAM is being used.
So if an XR came up and let's
say it had 4 gigs and found a
bad DIMM and so it came up with
really 3.5 gigs of available RAM,
it's going to start to swap
a lot when you run this test,
and the swapping is going to create a
huge time increase in how long it takes.
So again, you can check for ECC errors
by looking at the system logs.
It's in VAR log, system log,
and it's also in the hardware
monitor D log on the XRs.
But it might not just be memory.
It might be memory.
We've seen one or two bad CPUs
that the system will work fine,
but the CPUs will perform inconsistently.
And then finally it
could be logic boards.
Usually a logic board error is
a little bit different because
the system is just not reliable.
Usually it will crash,
and on the XRs when the system crashes,
it can actually reboot
within five minutes.
That's called a watchdog on OS X.
So if a system crashes during your test,
then you might want to be able to look at
the logic board or the CPU on that one.
So between tests,
you want to replace the DIMMs that
have the high ECC errors.
And really, when I say high,
ECC errors are going to happen.
I mean, at Virginia Tech,
we have 8,800 DIMMs.
We're going to have
ECC errors all the time.
What you want to look out for
is the stuff that's persistent,
especially the stuff that's
persistent across reboots.
So if I do a bunch of tests,
and I see one system that has ECC errors,
what I'm going to do is I'm
going to reboot all the systems
and run the tests again.
If that same system
is getting ECC errors,
then I know I definitely need
to replace that one DIMM.
And I can't stress this long enough,
but you really should keep very good
records of problems you've encountered.
An example I can give you is that you
can maybe perhaps replace a CPU on a
system when you thought the CPU was bad,
and pop it back in and
everything works fine.
Later down the road,
the system starts to develop errors.
So unless you kind of kept a
log of what the problem was,
you might think, hey, it's a CPU,
and replace the CPU again.
So keeping a good log is good,
especially when you start
getting larger systems.
It becomes very critical to do that.
So after that,
we should have all the nodes
working well individually.
So now we need to start
stressing the fabric out.
And when I say fabric,
I mean either the Ethernet network
or MirrorNet or InfiniBand,
the communications fabric
that you're going to be using.
So we kind of step it up a notch.
Instead of running on one XServe,
we're going to run one
test across two XServes.
And so what we're going to do is
we're going to set up a four CPU job.
So two CPUs on two XServes.
Let's say you get the four CPUs.
Same thing as before,
we're going to use 80%
of the physical RAM.
But you've got to remember
that this is the available
physical RAM on all your systems.
So before, we may have been running
on one 4GB XServe.
Now we're running on two 4GB XServes.
So that's actually 8GB of 3GB.
of available RAM.
And again, like the single pairs,
we want to run multiple tests just
to kind of stress things out and
make sure that when things start
running at a higher heat load,
it doesn't matter.
I've seen things where the heat
will actually start to loosen
the connector a little bit,
because obviously the connectors
are getting much warmer in the back,
and the connector wasn't seated properly.
So the heat can actually affect how
good the contact is of your connectors.
So running at a high heat is
actually kind of important for
making sure things are working.
So slow performance here is often
going to be a network issue,
but not always,
because you could see problems before
that just didn't develop earlier.
And with Ethernet, obviously,
you can look at the error counters,
and you can also do the same
thing with Mirrodin and FinnaBand.
Just check the error counters
and see if they're counting up.
If you're getting any
error counters whatsoever,
I think you should be looking at the
equipment and maybe replacing the cable,
receiving the cables.
So one of the problems that
we had with this is that,
so now we're kind of trying to
figure out network problems.
One of the first things we did at
Virginia Tech was we kind of did
a binary search for bad nodes.
So we would take maybe a cluster of
like 32 and run two 16-node tests.
And then the first one would fail,
and we'd go, okay,
so we got it down to 16,
and then we'd run two more tests of 8,
and okay,
now we know which one of the 8 is doing
it until you finally got down to it.
And that took a lot of time.
So we came up with this different way.
Basically,
you have the pairs like I mentioned.
So you pair like maybe node 1, node 2 up,
and node 3 and node 4 up, and so on,
and run those tests.
So let's say that node
1 and 2 tests failed.
Well, now you've narrowed it down to 2.
And so what we do on our second iteration
is we'll just kind of shift it by 1.
We'll match up nodes 2 and 3 together,
and maybe nodes 4 and 1 together,
and then test that.
So if the tests 1 and 2 failed,
and the tests 2 and 3 failed,
then chances are it's node 2
that's causing those problems.
And so, obviously,
you can look more closely at Node 2's
errors and see what is going on with it.
So that's basically some of
the testing methodologies.
There's a lot more than that,
but that really got us to a very
good point where we were kind of
happy with the state of the system.
I'm going to briefly go over some of the
job scheduling and resource management
stuff that's involved in clusters.
I always tell people that you don't
want to do this if you don't need to,
because it really does increase
the complexity of your system.
The only reason you really need to do
job scheduling and resource management
is if you have multiple users,
and it becomes really more
important if they all want
the system at the same time.
So, for example,
if you have a shared resource,
a cluster of 16 nodes,
and you have maybe two
faculty professors that,
you know, faculty,
they want to run on the entire system,
right?
So you can basically set it up so that
if both of them submit a 16-node job,
then it can split it,
or it can schedule the two and do that.
So we're going to break this
down into kind of resource
management job scheduling.
Resource management is in
charge of running the actual
codes on the compute nodes,
and
That the nodes are operating and they're
doing what they're supposed to be.
So make sure they're running the jobs,
make sure they're up,
and everything's staying fine.
So this basically just
handles the queue of jobs,
making sure the jobs run,
and making sure they
don't exceed resources.
Often when someone submits a job,
they have to estimate the resources.
So they'll say,
I want two wall hours of time,
which means they want their
code run for two hours.
And if their two hours comes
up and they're still running,
then the resource manager is responsible
for killing it and cleaning that up.
A resource management solution
I recommend is called GridEngine.
It was originally called Sun GridEngine,
or SGE.
It is free and it is open sourced,
and it is distributed by Sun,
and is probably one of the
more actively developed,
freely available resource managers.
There are a lot of others
that are commercial and free,
but I really like GridEngine.
I've been pretty happy with it.
They support OS X,
and I think they've been
doing it for a few years now.
So the job schedule will work
with the resource manager.
And its goal is to basically
make sure that your resources
are being used effectively.
And basically,
this is where you get into the
political issues that I was
kind of talking about before.
Another issue that you might
run into is that you might,
let's say you build a
cluster and you have,
Some people donate some
money to build that cluster.
Well, maybe the person who donated twice
as much as everyone else might want
to have a higher priority access.
A job schedule will let you kind of
give it so that when he submits a job,
his jobs get a higher
priority in the queue.
Most resource managers, though,
do come with a basic job scheduler,
and it's very similar to
what the X-Grid one is,
for example, which is basically first in,
first out.
If you submit a job,
you're going to be the first one to run,
and so forth.
But again,
if you need the fair share queuing,
if you need to perhaps have only
certain users run at certain
times on certain systems,
then you need to look at a
more complex job scheduler.
And one of those is called MAUI.
And MAUI is kind of the de facto
standard in HPC clusters for
doing complex job scheduling.
But it is complex,
because there's a lot of different
ways of prioritizing your users.
And MAUI has all the,
what we call different knobs and dials
where you can tune and tweak it so that
people can run at different levels.
Maui is free.
There is a commercial aspect of it.
It's called Moab.
So if you need commercial
support for Maui,
then you can look at Moab as well.
And it works pretty well.
Job scheduling is a really hairy thing.
So for example, at Virginia Tech,
we have someone who's probably
80% of their time is devoted to
just administering job scheduling.
And honestly, it can be quite hairy.
And he's responsible for
making sure everybody is happy,
which is a really difficult thing to do.
I'm also going to talk
about tweaking the OS.
This is actually something
I presented about last year.
And one of the things we're going to
talk about is how to reduce the number
of services that's running on a system,
on one of your compute nodes.
So what is our goal?
Everyone's probably seen,
either in TOP or in the
activity monitor on OS X,
all the things that are running.
And there's a lot of things in
there that you're not sure about.
Well, a lot of those are kind of the
core infrastructure for OS X.
But a lot of them aren't required
in the cluster environment.
So what we're going to do is we're
kind of going to wean these out and
get it down to kind of a core set
that we need to run on the system.
So why would we do this?
Because we want to free up
more cycles for the user codes.
And not only that,
but we want to make sure that these
things running in the background
don't ask time for the processor.
That generates what's
called a context switch.
The processor has to go do
something else and then come back.
And it just generally increases the
amount of time things take to run.
Also by reducing the number of services,
you generally reduce the system
complexity and potentially be able
to reduce things that go wrong.
So if you turn off a
service that you don't need,
then that's one less service that
might do something that's not
right and interfere with your task.
This can make diagnosing certain
things more of a problem.
For example, one thing that I often
do is I'll turn off,
and this is hard to say in
front of an OS X audience,
but I'll turn off the user interface,
because we don't need
it on the compute nodes.
You're not logging into each compute
node and running applications on it.
Most of the time you're running
it over the network through SSH.
But obviously this can make
diagnosing a little bit harder,
because you can't just sit down, log in,
and then go through the logs
or look at certain things.
So because it makes certain
things like diagnosing harder,
we only want to do this
on the compute nodes.
We don't want to do it on
the service and head nodes.
So Mike Bombeck, when he was working on
the UIUC Turing cluster,
created a script that would go
through a system and kind of disable
a recommended set of services.
And so he did that,
and I actually ran this on System 10.
I thought it was great.
I had done some of this work before,
but it was much more complete
than the stuff I had been doing.
So what we can do is we can,
based on each cluster node,
run HPC Tune dash dash recommended.
It's going to turn off a
recommended set of services,
and it's going to turn things
off like the Windows server,
and it's going to turn off things
like the Bonjour DNS stuff,
which if you're doing things like XGrid,
you don't want to turn Bonjour off
because it's going to break that.
It's also going to break XSAN as well
because XSAN uses Bonjour to communicate
and find the metadata controllers.
So there are certain times where you want
to make sure a service is turned back on.
And so you can actually use HPC Tune
and kind of adjust that recommended set.
So one thing it does leave
on is the auto-mounter.
And in certain situations,
you might not want the auto-mounter.
So there's an example of how
to apply the recommended set,
but instead of leaving
the auto-mounter on,
we're going to turn it off.
It is being updated for 10.4 right now.
10.4 did change a few things
about how services started.
It introduced LaunchD,
which is kind of completely
changing some things that happened.
It will be available on my .Mac account,
which is right there,
and it'll probably be available soon.
I would probably say at the
end of next week for 10.4,
and there's a 10.3 version there already.
And with that,
I'm going to hand it over to Jason.
Thanks a lot.
So I'm Jason Anthony Guy.
I manage a developer
technical support team.
So more information,
developer.apple.com/wwdc2005.
We've got a bunch of fantastic sessions
that either have passed and you'll be
able to watch on a streaming video in
the future or are coming up shortly.
One I'd like to definitely highlight
is the monitoring your system
with ARD and open source tools,
which is Thursday at 2:00.
So if you want to see how to monitor
those systems you're deploying remotely,
this is a great session to attend.
You should also join us
in the Enterprise IT Lab,
and a bunch of these guys and a bunch
of other systems administrators and so
on will be there to take your questions.
Chris Bledsoe is the person you want to
email if you have questions or comments.